>> Mike North: This part is particularly
interesting, overload signatures.
So we have a function here
called contactPeople.
And I take in an argument
called method and
the type of method here is either
the string email or the string phone.
And then any other parameter that follows
can be either HasEmail or HasPhone.
The same types that we were
using in the last exercise.
So down here, let's make sure
that this works as we'd expect.
If I wanna contact people by email, I can
do this, and that's invalid email address.
But from a type perspective,
it should work, this also works.
This should not work, right, email,
I mean, conceptually, this makes no sense.
If I'm trying to email someone and
they only have a phone number,
we're gonna run into a problem.
And unfortunately, this currently works.
And the reason is we have
defined two independent and
unrelated constraints here.
It can be either email or phone,
the string, and then the objects that we
take can be sort of a mixed bag of
contacts with emails and phone numbers.
So although these
are the narrowest types we could
provide for these two arguments in order
to get done what we need to get done.
There is some disallowed combination
that we want to prevent.
And TypeScript provides
a way of doing this.
So I wanna look at a tool tip here,
contactPeople, and
this matches exactly what
we're seeing above, right?
The first argument is one
of our two special strings.
And then this is our mixed bag
of HasEmail and HasPhoneNumber.
What I wanna do is create two
additional function signatures,
sorry for that little jump there.
And these are specific valid
ways to access this function.
So the first one,
you can only pass an email, and
then you must give me a list of
people with email addresses.
Second one, only phone, and
then, only HasPhoneNumber.
If we look at our tool tip now,
see that little 1 of 2 and 2 of 2?
There are two specific ways that
we can invoke this function,
either specify the string email and
give me objects with an email address.
Or let's get a line with the string
phone and HasPhoneNumber.
And if we look at our third and
problematic example here,
it's telling us that we've provided
an object with the phone number.
So this either I have to change
one thing or the other, right?
It's currently erroring by saying,
you gotta make this string phone,
you're operating on
people's phone numbers.
I don't have email addresses, so,
>> Mike North: Note that we
have two ways to access this function.
And those are the specific function
signatures we've defined up here.
This is not callable from the outside.
It just needs to be wide enough,
general enough to accommodate
all of the function signatures.
So if I were to remove this,
we'd run into an error on
the phone signature saying the underlying
implementation does not accommodate
passing phone as the first parameter.
So it just has to be general enough that
it'll meet the needs of all signatures
above it.
>> Mike North: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: So could you just
safely remove the type signature from
the actual function call?
>> Mike North: It depends
what you mean by safely.
So you could still,
like from the outside world's perspective,
it would be exactly as
safe as it is right now.
And I think what you're
saying here is basically
string,
>> Mike North: And
make this an array of anys, right?
>> Speaker 2: Or
even just removing everything,
all the types from line 53 to 56.
Cuz we've got the declarations on 49 and
50.
>> Mike North: Totally, and these would
become what we call implicit anys.
So this is gonna be an array of anys,
this is gonna be an any.
And from the outside world, because we
can't actually access the signature,
no type checking from the outside world
ever is compared against this signature.
So the outside world don't care,
but within this function,
I'm in the Wild West here.
Within the function,
I don't have any kind of type safety.
So it's a good idea for
the purpose of maintaining this function
to not be super, super general.
You might do something like this,
especially if you end up creating
a whole bunch of these signatures here.
Like let's say, we had fax and
SMS and smoke signal.
And it starts to get to a point where
this becomes a difficult to manage type.
And I might fall back to string here,
right?
>> Mike North: Good questions everybody.
>> Speaker 2: I have a quick question.
>> Mike North: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: So
the overload signature's
a documentation strategy?
>> Mike North: No, well-
>> Speaker 3: It seems kind of like one.
>> Mike North: It has
documentation benefits, to be sure.
Because it's very clear to consumers
what they should be doing.
But I only say it's not purely
a documentation strategy
because it actually has type
checking ramifications.
This signature on line 72, I mean,
this attempt to invoke the function here,
this is not type checking because
we only allow a and a, b and b.
And this signature here
is trying to do a and b.
It is like a disallowed range of
arguments that we can pass in.
So more than just
providing useful tool tips,
it is actually greenlighting
certain styles of invocation and
forbidding anything else that's not,
that doesn't fit.
>> Mike North: Has anyone here ever worked
with a language that supports pattern
matching like Scala or Erlang or Elixir?
So this is similar to patterns,
where often you can
define multiple signatures that
are designed for specific cases.
The difference here is you can
only have multiple function heads.
You can't have multiple implementations,
right?
But you can have multiple behaviors here,
independent functions that share
the same name and kind of stack on top
of each other, just the signatures.
And the reason is this
has to become JavaScript.
And this JavaScript doesn't
support patterns in that way.
But I think of it in similar way.